Welcome back.
We've introduced the idea of
information extraction and
one of its core tasks,
named entity extraction.
Now we'd like to turn to a second
core task of information extraction,
the task of extracting relations,
or relation extraction.
Consider the following sentence
from a company report.
International Business Machines was
incorporated in the State of New York
on June 16th and so on.
We'd like to extract a relatively
complex relation about Company-Founding.
We'd like to know that
there was a founding event,
and that the company was IBM,
that the location was in New York,
that there was a date, that the company
was originally named CTR, and so on, so
all this kind of facts about
this large structured relation.
That's the general task of information
extraction as we've defined it.
But we're going to define a simpler
task of relation extraction
which we're going to call the task
of extracting relation triples.
So instead of these complex events,
we'll extract things like
Founding-year(IBM,1911).
So a simple relation between
a predicate and two arguments.
IBM was founded in the year 1911,
Founding-year(IBM,1911), and
the same with location,
Founding-location(IBM,New York).
So a series of individual triples,
and that'll be our task,
extracting these triples from text.
So for example, imagine the following
Wikipedia page about Stanford University.
Taking a sentence like,
the Leland Stanford Junior University,
commonly referred to as
Stanford University and so on.
From these fragments of sentences,
we'd like to extract relations,
like the following.
That Stanford is located in California.
And we get that from located in Stanford,
California.
Or founded in 1891,
there is founded the University in 1891.
And the founder was Leland Stanford,
and here we have Leland Stanford.
So from this kind of text,
our job is to extract individual relations
between the entities in the text.
Relation extraction is important for
all sorts of applications.
Any time we need some kind
of structured knowledge, and
the knowledge originally is in
the form of text, it's more easy for
an application to get that knowledge
from a structured database, so
we'd like to extract these textual
facts into structured form.
That could be new structured databases or
we could adding words to
current databases like the WordNet
thesaurus that we'll talk about later, or
FreeBase, or
DBPedia that we'll talk about later today.
These kind of relations are quite useful,
for example,
in tasks like question answering.
So imagine the following question
that's modified from a question that
was asked on the Jeopardy show.
The granddaughter of which actor
starred in the movie "E.T."?
And in order to answer this question,
we'd like to know that the relations in
the question include, acted in E.T., so
we want to know who acted in E.T., and we
have to know that someone is an actor, and
that someone is somebody
else's granddaughter.
So these kind of relations will help, both
in understanding what's being asked in
the question, and
then finding the answer in raw text.
That's all great, but
what relations should we be extracting?
Well one set of relations, comes from
the Automated Content Extraction,
or ACE task, where 17 relations
grouped into six classes were defined.
So, for example, we had the class of
PERSON-SOCIAL relations, so we had Family.
So that's going to to be
related to a parent or
a brother relation between people.
Or we had PHYSICAL locations,
something is located in some place or
located near some place.
Or affiliation with some organization.
I might be the founder of an organization,
or the owner, or
some member of an organization.
Or I might be the creator of some
artifact, the manufacturer or
inventor of an artifact.
Or I might be a corporate subsidiary.
Or I might be a geographical
subpart of some other entity.
So these are all the kinds of
relations that are in ACE.
And so for example,
we might have the Physical-Located
in relation, and that might hold
between a person like He, and
some kind of geopolitical entity
like the state of Tennessee.
Or a Part-Whole-Subsidiary that might
hold between two organizations.
The first organization, the parent
company of the second organization.
Or, we talked about family relations so
again, holding between two people that
a wife and a husband are related
by the family relation.
Or we might have the founder relation
that holds between a person and
an organization.
So here we have a relation
between Steve Jobs And Apple.
So these are the kind of relations that we
extracted using the ACE set of relations.
Of course there's different sets of
relations for every possible task.
For biomedical information extraction
we might want to use the UMLS,
the Unified Medical Language System, which
defines entities and relations as well.
So, for example, we have entities like
Injury or Physiological Function,
and they can be related by relations
like disrupts or location-of.
So for example we might have some
Pharmacological Substance, some drug,
and that might cause some Pathological
Function, it might cause some disease or
cause some problem.
Or we might have some other
Pharmacological Substance, or
we might have some other
Pharmacological Substance that
instead treats some Pathological Function.
So we have lots of different entities.
In this case,
134 of them in this dataset, and
54 relations that can hold between them.
Now for each application,
we might have a different set of
relations that might be useful.
So, for example, the sentence, Doppler
echocardiography can be used to diagnose
left anterior descending artery stenosis,
we might extract from that sentence
a relation of diagnoses between
this technique and this stenosis.
Now there are lots of existing databases
of relations that have been extracted from
public sources like Wikipedia for example,
so to take that same Stanford University
Wikipedia page, you may notice over
on the right here a little structured
part of the Wikipedia page.
That's called the Wikipedia info box.
If you look in more detail at what we have
there, we have in fact a set of relations.
So we have Type, Private.
President, John Hennessey.
Location, Stanford, and so on.
So each of these kinds of relation names
and the values of their relations.
And if you look at the source for
this, we can see the actual infobox.
And here for example,
we can see that the city
of the University is Stanford,
the state is California, and
the motto "Die Luft der Freiheit weht",
and so on.
And so we can extract these relations
directly out of the infoboxes.
State their relation,
state their relation model.
Holding between Stanford and
California, or Stanford and the motto.
These databases that draw from Wikipedia
tend to represent the information in what
are called Resource Description Framework
triples, or RDF triples.
An RDF triple is just a subject,
some sort of predicate and an object.
So, the predicate is what we
are calling a relation, so
location would be a predicate in RDF.
So we have Golden Gate Park
location San Francisco, so
a location relation between
Golden Gate Park and San Francisco.
And, databases like DBPedia which draw
on the Wikipedia infoboxes to create
these large databases to triple,
in fact has a billion of these triples,
385 million of which come from, I should
say million, come from English Wikipedia.
And in other databases like Freebase,
we have a lot of this kind of relations,
so a common relation is the nationality
of a person mentioned in Wikipedia, or
their profession, or classification of
a biological entity, or which locations
are inside which other locations,
like Paris is in France, and so on.
We can also extract ontological relations,
we'll talk about this more when we talk
about thesauruses like WordNet, but
every kind of relation databases includes,
or are called, IS-A, or hypernym,
or subsumption relation.
So we know that a giraffe is a kind of
ruminant, which is a kind of ungulate,
which is a kind of mammal, and so on.
So these IS-A or hypernym relations are
very important and we can think of those
as the same kind of relation and extract
them with similar kinds of methods.
Of this specific type of, this kind of
relation where we have an instance and
a particular entity like San Francisco
which is an instance of a city,
so we can have a relationship
between classes,
the class giraffe is a subtype
of the class ruminant.
Or we can have an instance San Francisco
which is an instance of a class like city.
And again these relations can
be extracted from text and
we can use them to augment databases or
create new databases of our own.
How do we build these relation extractors?
There's a number of methods.
Like all information extraction,
as we saw with named entity tagging,
we can hand-write patterns, and
we'll talk about hand-written patterns for
extracting relations.
We can do supervised machine learning.
And then there's a number of popular
methods for doing semi-supervised and
unsupervised learning for
extracting relations, and
we'll talk about those as well.
We've seen that relation extraction
is an important component of
information extraction,
useful for question answering and
for building large
knowledge bases from text.